Day 14 - CSSS
6/28/2018
=============

Modeling Past Human Societies
--------------------------------------------------
Why model? "Wind back the tape of lide to the early days of the Burgess Shale; let it play back ... " (Gould)

Mesa Verde settlement: Still not well understood why they left? Can we answer this question by understanding how the settlement developed?

Hypothesis: Growth of the Chacoan regional system signifies a political hierarchy in the American Southwest.

Use agent-based model of (i) environment, (ii) households / people, and (iii) hierarchy.
	Consider: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lanchester%27s_laws

Theory: Tribute flow leads to power. Power leads to hierarchy.


The Neolithic agricultural revolution and the origin of private property: how technologies and institutions co-evolve
--------------------------------------------------
Technology and institutions as influences on social dynamics, though they are not mutuall exclusive.

Echoes of this institutions versus technology debate in recent works on growth and stagnation.

Technology and institutions: 
	* Exogenous shocks: 
		- Changes to the forces of production -> change social relations of production (Marx)
		- As a driver of institutional innovation (particularly climate change)

Climate changed more favorably, and brought about farming. Though farming is not more efficient / nutrious than foraging. Why did it emerge?
	- Was not due to population pressure, or for "mandatory" reasons.
	- Because of military and demographic advantages in faming populations?

Institutional barriers to technical change: in farming, barriers in (a) storage, and the (b) obligation to share excess food.

"For farming to be individually advantageous one had to be able to exclude others from the fruits of ones labor so property rights were required; but ... ownership of dispersed and mobile wild species was difficult to delimit and defend ... " (needed the idea of private property)

	* "Coevolutionary process", not exogenous drivers of history, modeled via a stochastic Markov process with multiple stationary states. Coevolution of technology and institutions.

Perhaps, the reductionof climatic volatility allowed a more sedentary livelihood and contributed to conditions for an evolution of private property.

Puzzle restated: "A land-saving labor intensive technology (farming) proliferated in a land-abundant economy"

Approach: model needs to represent a substantially un-coordinated process (evolutionary game theory in large populations, not classical game theory with a few hypothetical "collective" actors)
	Need "strategic complementaritues" (positive feedback) to have multiple stationary states

	Civic & Bourgeois (Dove & Hawk): 
		Civic: collective action based on reputation not possession, vulnerable to losses
		Bourgeois: actions based on possession

		"Two basins of attraction" depending on initial conditions (too many civics or too many bourgeois)

	Two technologies: (Civic) foraging and (Bourgeois) farming.
		Consider the payoff advantage of the bourgeois, as a function of the fraction of bourgeois

	Transitions between farming and foraging should be rare under the model, and they are!

Take home message: not labor productivity that accounts for farming, but its instead the adoption of private property


Machine Learning II
--------------------------------------------------


Networks & Animal Societies II
--------------------------------------------------
* When does structured conflict emerge?
* How do strategies change when information type or amount changes?
* Can people synthesis and use information that is not directly provided?





